README.md, before:

# Pioneer Pagination


## What is Pioneer Pagination?
Pioneer Pagination is an ASP.Net Core Tag Helper that produces a paginated list which is configured to a desired state.
![Pagination Image](http://pioneercode.com/images/github/pioneer-pagination.png "Pagination Image")

## Where can I get it?
Pioneer Pagination is available as a [NuGet package](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Pioneer.Pagination/). 

## How does it work?
1. In your controller, you make a call to ```PaginatedMetaService``` which returns a ```PaginatedMetaModel```.
2. Your ```PaginatedMetaModel``` is then passed to your view so that the Tag Helper can utilize it. 
3. In your view, you bind the ```PaginatedMetaModel``` to an attribute and set a route on another attribute.
4. The Tag Helper generates a paginated list. 

## How do I use it?

For a full working example, clone this repository and run the [Pioneer.Pagination.Example](https://github.com/PioneerCode/pioneer-pagination/tree/master/src/Pioneer.Pagination.Example) project locally.

### Install
To install, run the following command from your package manager console:
```cmd
PM> Install-Package Pioneer.Pagination
```

### Gain access to the PaginatedMetaService service. 

In your Startup.cs class, add ```PaginatedMetaService``` into your dependency injection container.
```csharp
public void ConfigureServices(IServiceCollection services)
{
    services.AddTransient<IPaginatedMetaService, PaginatedMetaService>();
}
```

In your controller, add a reference to the ```IPaginatedMetaService``` interface and set it through dependency injection.
```csharp
public class BlogController : Controller
{
    private readonly IPaginatedMetaService _paginatedMetaService;

    public BlogController(IPaginatedMetaService paginatedMetaService)
    {
        _paginatedMetaService = paginatedMetaService;
    }
}
```

### Add PaginatedMetaModel to ViewBag
From your controller, bind the ```PaginatedMetaModel``` to your ```ViewBag```.
```csharp
public ActionResult Index(int page = 1)
{
	// Typically obtained from a service/repository
    var totalNumberInCollection = 100;
	// Typically obtained from configuration
    var itemsPerPage = 5;
    ViewBag.PaginatedMeta = _paginatedMetaService.GetMetaData(totalNumberInCollection, page, itemsPerPage);
    return View("Blog", post);
}
```

### Add Tag Helper to your view
```csharp
<pioneer-pagination info="@ViewBag.PaginatedMeta" route="/blog"></pioneer-pagination>
```

### Configuration

- **previous-page-text**
  - default = next
- **previous-page-text**
  - default = previous

```csharp
<pioneer-pagination info="@ViewBag.PaginatedMeta" route="/blog" previous-page-text="hey" next-page-text="you"></pioneer-pagination>
```

## What about styling?
The markup this produces is based on [Foundation Pagination](http://foundation.zurb.com/sites/docs/pagination.html).  This leaves you one of three options.

1. Use [Foundation](http://foundation.zurb.com/sites/docs/) and it will work out of the box.
2. Map the classes to Bootstrap stylings.
3. Use the starting [CSS](https://github.com/PioneerCode/pioneer-pagination/blob/master/src/Pioneer.Pagination.Example/wwwroot/pioneer.pagination.css) or [sass](https://github.com/PioneerCode/pioneer-pagination/blob/master/src/Pioneer.Pagination.Example/sass/pioneer.pagination.scss) files provided in the example.

## Change Log

### [2.1.1]
- Account for out of range request for a page by clamping them. 

### [2.1.0]
- Add configuration for previous and next verbiage - [ryn0](https://github.com/ryn0)

### [2.0.0]
- Migarted to .NET Standard 2.x
- Migarted example project to ASP.NET Core 2.x

### [1.1.2]
- Fixed Next button not being displayed 
	- Next should be displayed up until last page.
	- Added supported UTs. 

### [1.1.0]
- Upgrade to LTS 1.0.3
- Fixed previous and next button indexing
   - Supporting UTs.

Commit message:

Update readme with clamping info

README.md, after:

# Pioneer Pagination


## What is Pioneer Pagination?
Pioneer Pagination is an ASP.Net Core Tag Helper that produces a paginated list which is configured to a desired state.
![Pagination Image](http://pioneercode.com/images/github/pioneer-pagination.png "Pagination Image")

## Where can I get it?
Pioneer Pagination is available as a [NuGet package](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Pioneer.Pagination/). 

## How does it work?
1. In your controller, you make a call to ```PaginatedMetaService``` which returns a ```PaginatedMetaModel```.
2. Your ```PaginatedMetaModel``` is then passed to your view so that the Tag Helper can utilize it. 
3. In your view, you bind the ```PaginatedMetaModel``` to an attribute and set a route on another attribute.
4. The Tag Helper generates a paginated list. 

## How do I use it?

For a full working example, clone this repository and run the [Pioneer.Pagination.Example](https://github.com/PioneerCode/pioneer-pagination/tree/master/src/Pioneer.Pagination.Example) project locally.

### Install
To install, run the following command from your package manager console:
```cmd
PM> Install-Package Pioneer.Pagination
```

### Gain access to the PaginatedMetaService service. 

In your Startup.cs class, add ```PaginatedMetaService``` into your dependency injection container.
```csharp
public void ConfigureServices(IServiceCollection services)
{
    services.AddTransient<IPaginatedMetaService, PaginatedMetaService>();
}
```

In your controller, add a reference to the ```IPaginatedMetaService``` interface and set it through dependency injection.
```csharp
public class BlogController : Controller
{
    private readonly IPaginatedMetaService _paginatedMetaService;

    public BlogController(IPaginatedMetaService paginatedMetaService)
    {
        _paginatedMetaService = paginatedMetaService;
    }
}
```

### Add PaginatedMetaModel to ViewBag
From your controller, bind the ```PaginatedMetaModel``` to your ```ViewBag```.
```csharp
public ActionResult Index(int page = 1)
{
	// Typically obtained from a service/repository
    var totalNumberInCollection = 100;
	// Typically obtained from configuration
    var itemsPerPage = 5;
    ViewBag.PaginatedMeta = _paginatedMetaService.GetMetaData(totalNumberInCollection, page, itemsPerPage);
    return View("Blog", post);
}
```

### Add Tag Helper to your view
```csharp
<pioneer-pagination info="@ViewBag.PaginatedMeta" route="/blog"></pioneer-pagination>
```

### Configuration

- **previous-page-text**
  - default = next
- **previous-page-text**
  - default = previous

```csharp
<pioneer-pagination info="@ViewBag.PaginatedMeta" route="/blog" previous-page-text="hey" next-page-text="you"></pioneer-pagination>
```

## What about styling?
The markup this produces is based on [Foundation Pagination](http://foundation.zurb.com/sites/docs/pagination.html).  This leaves you one of three options.

1. Use [Foundation](http://foundation.zurb.com/sites/docs/) and it will work out of the box.
2. Map the classes to Bootstrap stylings.
3. Use the starting [CSS](https://github.com/PioneerCode/pioneer-pagination/blob/master/src/Pioneer.Pagination.Example/wwwroot/pioneer.pagination.css) or [sass](https://github.com/PioneerCode/pioneer-pagination/blob/master/src/Pioneer.Pagination.Example/sass/pioneer.pagination.scss) files provided in the example.

## Clamping
The services will clamp out of range indexes passed to `_paginatedMetaService.GetMetaData`.  If you pass a current page value < 1, it will be clamped to 1.
If you pass a current page value > then the `collectionSize \ itemsPerPage` , it will get clamped to the last valid page.

Because the aggragation of data is handled independetly of the actual tag helper, you will need to insure you are clamping the requests coming from the user in the same manner.

## Change Log

### [2.1.1]
- Account for out of range request for a page by clamping them. 

### [2.1.0]
- Add configuration for previous and next verbiage - [ryn0](https://github.com/ryn0)

### [2.0.0]
- Migarted to .NET Standard 2.x
- Migarted example project to ASP.NET Core 2.x

### [1.1.2]
- Fixed Next button not being displayed 
	- Next should be displayed up until last page.
	- Added supported UTs. 

### [1.1.0]
- Upgrade to LTS 1.0.3
- Fixed previous and next button indexing
   - Supporting UTs.
